HIVE-21218: Adding support for Confluent Kafka Avro message format (#933)
apache/hive: kafka-handler/README.md

SET TBLPROPERTIES (
  "kafka.serde.class" = "org.apache.hadoop.hive.serde2.avro.AvroSerDe");
```

> If you use Confluent Avro serialzier/deserializer with schema registry you may want to remove 5 bytes from beginning that represents magic byte + schema ID from registry.

Author: Fixed.

> If you use Confluent Avro serialzier/deserializer with Schema Registry you may want to remove 5 bytes from beginning that represents magic byte + schema ID from registry.

Reviewer: @davidov541 please help me understand this, the first 5 bytes on the record am guessing it is a schema id that can be used to fetch schema from the registry ?
**If that is correct then I think we should not call this confluent and let me explain why.**
Imagine in the near/far future someone implement a full fledge Avro reader that uses those five bytes to figure out schema from the schema registry what shall we call this now ? Confluent V2 ? that is why I think it is confusing. Thus in my opinion it is better to call it skip, and document how this can be used to read data from Confluent Avro SerDe. Please let me know if this makes sense to you.

Author: @b-slim You appear to be correct, based on the source code: https://github.com/confluentinc/schema-registry/blob/master/avro-serializer/src/main/java/io/confluent/kafka/serializers/AbstractKafkaAvroSerializer.java. Let's say we did implement as is, and later we implement the schema registry lookup and use the same identifier? Who would that break? Serialized messages that point to a bogus schema registry instance, or serialized messages that happened to need 5 bytes at the front of the message, but aren't from confluent, and some clever dev figured out he could use Confluent instead of the right way? 

The second case doesn't matter to me tbh. 

The first case is concerning and should be handled. I would expect that we would catch when we can't find a schema and print out a warning, but no error. That would allow this case to continue working. But we would be making assumptions on the implementation of a feature in the future, which is always a crapshoot...

To be clear, if we make sure documentation is clear on this outside of just these parameters, and @cricket007 agrees with it as a heavy Confluent user, then I'm fine with it. It feels like we've covered this problem enough to be in a good spot either way.

Reviewer 2: Links for Context - https://docs.confluent.io/current/schema-registry/serializer-formatter.html#wire-format

However, there are *other* Registries, so I would like to make a point to make this as extensible as possible. 

- https://github.com/hortonworks/registry
- https://github.com/Apicurio/apicurio-registry/

[Confluent's branding says `Confluent Schema Regisry`](https://docs.confluent.io/current/schema-registry/index.html), so I think it's self-explanatory enough

Author: How about this: for now, we do not call this Confluent, and instead document that if you are using Confluent, you need to use skip bytes = 5. Once we implement the feature to use the schema ID properly, then we can use Confluent at that point. That way it is clear what functionality must be in place in order to have a separate SerDe type.

In a related note, I don't see any reference to a JIRA to implement the feature to use the schema ID. Do either of you have that one? If not, should I create that and link it for reference?

Reviewer 2: Sorry if I missed it, but is there a test case for when you do skip the bytes, but there's no url or literal given?

Author: I'm not sure how that is germane to this thread or to this changelist at all. Skipping the bytes does not currently have any connection to having a schema, which is already implemented as part of the Kafka Avro support. The system would work the same as it would if you didn't specify a schema in the first place. I don't see any tests in the other parts which test this, although there are plenty of query tests which test the use of the literal and URL properties, so I suspect there is one such test there. Given that that is orthagonal to this problem, however, I see no need to add another test to this changeset for that.

Author: @b-slim : Based on my proposal above, I've removed the confluent serde type. I'm keeping the serde type parameter with the expectation that we'll implement schema registry use in the future, so having that distinction is important for that time.

> If you use Confluent Avro serialzier/deserializer with Schema Registry you may want to remove 5 bytes from beginning that represents magic byte + schema ID from registry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you use Confluent's Avro serializer/deserializer with their Schema Registry, you may want to remove the first 5 bytes from the beginning of the Kafka field, which represent a magic byte (0x0) & a numeric schema integer ID.
```

> If you use Confluent's Avro serialzier or deserializer with the Confluent Schema Registry, you will need to remove five bytes from beginning of each message. These five bytes represent [a magic byte and a four-byte schema ID from registry.](https://docs.confluent.io/current/schema-registry/serializer-formatter.html#wire-format)

Reviewer 2: Typo: serializer

Remove five bytes from *the* beginning of each

From *the* Registry

> It can be done by setting `"avro.serde.type"="confluent"` or `"avro.serde.type"="skip"` with `"avro.serde.skip.bytes"="5"`. It's recommended to set an avro schema via `"avro.schema.url"="http://hostname/SimpleDocument.avsc"` or `"avro.schema.literal"="{"type" : "record","name" : "SimpleRecord","..."}`. If both properties are set then `avro.schema.literal` has higher priority.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It can be done by setting `"avro.serde.type"="confluent"` or `"avro.serde.type"="skip"` with `"avro.serde.skip.bytes"="5"`. It's recommended to set an Avro schema via `"avro.schema.url"="http://hostname/SimpleDocument.avsc"` or `"avro.schema.literal"="{"type" : "record","name" : "SimpleRecord","..."}`. If both properties are set then `avro.schema.literal` has higher priority.
```

> It can be done by setting `"avro.serde.type"="confluent"` or `"avro.serde.type"="skip"` with `"avro.serde.skip.bytes"="5"`. It's recommended to set an avro schema via `"avro.schema.url"="http://hostname/SimpleDocument.avsc"` or `"avro.schema.literal"="{"type" : "record","name" : "SimpleRecord","..."}`. If both properties are set then `avro.schema.literal` has higher priority.

Reviewer 2: It is still recommended to set the literal if using `confluent`?

Link https://github.com/confluentinc/schema-registry/pull/686
